README.md, before:

# Zeus Server

Zeus Server is a Lightning Network Point of Sale application for LND, written in Java.

If you are looking for the Mobile App, please visit [ZeusLN/zeus](https://github.com/ZeusLN/zeus).

![screenshot webshop](doc/screenshot-webshop.png)


## Quick Start / How to Use

This chapter will show you how you can quickly start Zeus Server.

You will need:
* Your own LND node (see next chapter)
* `docker` and `docker-compose` installed on your machine


### Set up your own LND node

The Spring Boot backend uses the
[LightningJ Java library](https://www.lightningj.org/) to connect to a
[Lightning Network Daemon (LND)](https://github.com/lightningnetwork/lnd) over
[gRPC](https://grpc.io/). You will need to set up an LND node with version
[`0.6.1-beta`](https://github.com/lightningnetwork/lnd/releases/tag/v0.6.1-beta)
or newer.

There are many tutorials out there but we recommend either 
[this (default)](https://github.com/lightningnetwork/lnd/blob/master/docs/INSTALL.md)
or
[this (docker)](https://github.com/lightningnetwork/lnd/blob/master/docs/DOCKER.md)

This application is network agnostic, so it does not matter if you are running
`testnet` or `mainnet`. But of course we strongly recommend to start with
`testnet` first!

After the LND node is running and is fully synced to the chain, follow the steps
below. We assume that LND saves its files to `~/.lnd/`. If you changed that
path, adjust the following example paths accordingly. 

* Make sure the gRPC port (default `10009`) of the node is open and reachable
* Copy the file `~/.lnd/tls.cert` to the folder `src/main/resources/certs` and also name it `tls.cert`
* Get the hex value of the `invoice.macaroon` and store it somewhere, we'll need
  this later.  
  Use this command for example:  
  `xxd -p -c 999 ~/.lnd/data/chain/bitcoin/testnet/invoice.macaroon`
* Get the hex value of the `readonly.macaroon` and store it somewhere, we'll need
  this later.  
  Use this command for example:  
  `xxd -p -c 999 ~/.lnd/data/chain/bitcoin/testnet/readonly.macaroon`

### Configure application

Now you need to configure the application to use the LND node you just set up.

To do this, edit the file `application-dev.yml` in the folder `backend/src/main/resources/config` and
change the following values:

```yaml
application:
    bitcoin:
        # point this to http://<bitcoind-hostname>:8332/rest/chaininfo.json if you have a full node.
        # set it to 'disabled' if you don't have a bitcoind full node running.
        restUrl: disabled
    mail:
        send: true
        recipient: mail@example.com
    lnd:
        host: localhost
        port: 10009
        certPath: classpath:/certs/tls.cert
        # insert the hex values of the macaroon obtained in the previous step here!
        invoiceMacaroonHex: 0201036c.....
        readonlyMacaroonHex: 0201036c.....
```

The most important thing you need to change is to change the hostname/port and to add the hex values for the
macaroons that you saved somewhere in the previous step.

### Start with docker-compose

This will start the docker images from Docker Hub and mount the configuration file:

`docker-compose up`

Now you should see the application when opening `http://localhost:9000/` in your browser.

### Start development env

To start developing you need to start every component manually:

1. Start DB in background: `docker-compose up -d zeus-db`
1. Start the backend: `cd backend; ../gradlew bootRun`
1. Start the frontend: `cd frontend; yarn install; yarn start`

Now you should see the application when opening `http://localhost:9000/` in your browser.

## Available modules

The following modules have been implemented so far:

### Web Shop

A classic web shop with a shopping cart and a checkout procedure.

URL: `http://host:port/#/shop`

![screenshot webshop](doc/screenshot-webshop.png)
![screenshot webshop checkout](doc/screenshot-checkout.png)

### Self service

A self-order page that only displays a certain number of products that can be ordered by directly paying an
invoice that is shown. Available for portrait or landscape display orientation.

URL: `http://host:port#/self-service/INVOICE-PREFIX`

![screenshot self service portrait](doc/screenshot-self-service.png)


URL: `http://host:port/#/self-service-landscape/INVOICE-PREFIX`

![screenshot self service landscape](doc/screenshot-self-service-landscape.png)

### Donation

A simple donation form that can be embedded as an iframe for example.

URL: `http://host:port/#/donate/DONATION-TEXT`

![screenshot donation](doc/screenshot-donation.png)

### Administrative interface

Apart from the default JHipster admin pages for health, metrics, configuration and log configuration,
there are also two specific interfaces related to the Lightning Network.

URL: `http://host:port/#/admin`

The default username is `admin` and the password is `admin`.

#### Invoice overview

A list of all paid and unpaid invoices, can be filtered by type and date.

![screenshot admin invoices](doc/screenshot-admin-invoices.png)

#### Node and channel management

An admin interface that shows some node statistics and the current open channels with their balances.

![screenshot admin channels](doc/screenshot-admin-channels.png)


## Advanced Configuration / Customization

We built this application as a template so you can build your own fancy
self-order point of sale screen.
[You can see a demo video of our version here.](https://twitter.com/gugol/status/1042658297927675905)

The following chapters will guide you through the steps that are necessary to
customize the generic `Zeus Server` to your needs.

### Write your own invoice processor

Invoice processors are invoked after a Lightning Network invoice has been
updated. Usually, this means it has been paid/settled. You can write your
own invoice processor by implementing `ApplicationListener<InvoiceEvent>` in 
your service.

There is an example `ch.puzzle.ln.zeus.service.processors.MailSendOrderProcessor`
service that sends out an e-mail whenever an invoice has been paid:

```java
package ch.puzzle.ln.zeus.service.processors;

import ch.puzzle.ln.zeus.service.InvoiceEvent;
import ch.puzzle.ln.zeus.service.MailService;
import ch.puzzle.ln.zeus.service.dto.InvoiceDTO;
import org.springframework.context.ApplicationListener;
import org.springframework.stereotype.Service;

@Service
public class MailSendOrderProcessor implements ApplicationListener<InvoiceEvent> {

    private final MailService mailService;

    public MailSendOrderProcessor(MailService mailService) {
        this.mailService = mailService;
    }

    @Override
    public void onApplicationEvent(InvoiceEvent event) {
        InvoiceDTO invoice = event.getInvoice();
        
        // Make sure we only send an e-mail if the invoice has been settled
        // for the first time.
        if (invoice.isSettled() && event.isFirstSettleEvent()) {
            mailService.sendOrderConfirmation(invoice);
        }
    }
}

```

You can customize this however you want.

### Build your own web GUI

There is a simple generic example self-order store implemented in the web GUI.

To change the products and their price, make sure to edit the following files:

* TODO: config file

To change the way the self-order store looks, edit the following files:

* `src/main/webapp/app/shop/self-service.component.html`
* `src/main/webapp/app/shop/self-service.component.scss`

Commit message:

Add possibility to add admin.macaroon

README.md, after:

# Zeus Server

Zeus Server is a Lightning Network Point of Sale application for LND, written in Java.

If you are looking for the Mobile App, please visit [ZeusLN/zeus](https://github.com/ZeusLN/zeus).

![screenshot webshop](doc/screenshot-webshop.png)


## Quick Start / How to Use

This chapter will show you how you can quickly start Zeus Server.

You will need:
* Your own LND node (see next chapter)
* `docker` and `docker-compose` installed on your machine


### Set up your own LND node

The Spring Boot backend uses the
[LightningJ Java library](https://www.lightningj.org/) to connect to a
[Lightning Network Daemon (LND)](https://github.com/lightningnetwork/lnd) over
[gRPC](https://grpc.io/). You will need to set up an LND node with version
[`0.6.1-beta`](https://github.com/lightningnetwork/lnd/releases/tag/v0.6.1-beta)
or newer.

There are many tutorials out there but we recommend either 
[this (default)](https://github.com/lightningnetwork/lnd/blob/master/docs/INSTALL.md)
or
[this (docker)](https://github.com/lightningnetwork/lnd/blob/master/docs/DOCKER.md)

This application is network agnostic, so it does not matter if you are running
`testnet` or `mainnet`. But of course we strongly recommend to start with
`testnet` first!

After the LND node is running and is fully synced to the chain, follow the steps
below. We assume that LND saves its files to `~/.lnd/`. If you changed that
path, adjust the following example paths accordingly. 

* Make sure the gRPC port (default `10009`) of the node is open and reachable
* Copy the file `~/.lnd/tls.cert` to the folder `src/main/resources/certs` and also name it `tls.cert`
* Get the hex value of the `invoice.macaroon` and store it somewhere, we'll need
  this later.  
  Use this command for example:  
  `xxd -p -c 999 ~/.lnd/data/chain/bitcoin/testnet/invoice.macaroon`
* Get the hex value of the `readonly.macaroon` and store it somewhere, we'll need
  this later.  
  Use this command for example:  
  `xxd -p -c 999 ~/.lnd/data/chain/bitcoin/testnet/readonly.macaroon`
* Get the hex value of the `admin.macaroon` and store it somewhere, we'll need
  this later. You may refrain from using the admin macaroon for security reasons, 
  in which case the Zeus functionality will be limited to processes where you do not actively move any funds yourself.
  Use this command for example:  
  `xxd -p -c 999 ~/.lnd/data/chain/bitcoin/testnet/admin.macaroon`
  

### Configure application

Now you need to configure the application to use the LND node you just set up.

To do this, edit the file `application-dev.yml` in the folder `backend/src/main/resources/config` and
change the following values:

```yaml
application:
    bitcoin:
        # point this to http://<bitcoind-hostname>:8332/rest/chaininfo.json if you have a full node.
        # set it to 'disabled' if you don't have a bitcoind full node running.
        restUrl: disabled
    mail:
        send: true
        recipient: mail@example.com
    lnd:
        host: localhost
        port: 10009
        certPath: classpath:/certs/tls.cert
        # insert the hex values of the macaroon obtained in the previous step here!
        adminMacaroonHex: 0201036c.....
        invoiceMacaroonHex: 0201036c.....
        readonlyMacaroonHex: 0201036c.....
```

The most important thing you need to change is to change the hostname/port and to add the hex values for the
macaroons that you saved somewhere in the previous step.

### Start with docker-compose

This will start the docker images from Docker Hub and mount the configuration file:

`docker-compose up`

Now you should see the application when opening `http://localhost:9000/` in your browser.

### Start development env

To start developing you need to start every component manually:

1. Start DB in background: `docker-compose up -d zeus-db`
1. Start the backend: `cd backend; ../gradlew bootRun`
1. Start the frontend: `cd frontend; yarn install; yarn start`

Now you should see the application when opening `http://localhost:9000/` in your browser.

## Available modules

The following modules have been implemented so far:

### Web Shop

A classic web shop with a shopping cart and a checkout procedure.

URL: `http://host:port/#/shop`

![screenshot webshop](doc/screenshot-webshop.png)
![screenshot webshop checkout](doc/screenshot-checkout.png)

### Self service

A self-order page that only displays a certain number of products that can be ordered by directly paying an
invoice that is shown. Available for portrait or landscape display orientation.

URL: `http://host:port#/self-service/INVOICE-PREFIX`

![screenshot self service portrait](doc/screenshot-self-service.png)


URL: `http://host:port/#/self-service-landscape/INVOICE-PREFIX`

![screenshot self service landscape](doc/screenshot-self-service-landscape.png)

### Donation

A simple donation form that can be embedded as an iframe for example.

URL: `http://host:port/#/donate/DONATION-TEXT`

![screenshot donation](doc/screenshot-donation.png)

### Administrative interface

Apart from the default JHipster admin pages for health, metrics, configuration and log configuration,
there are also two specific interfaces related to the Lightning Network.

URL: `http://host:port/#/admin`

The default username is `admin` and the password is `admin`.

#### Invoice overview

A list of all paid and unpaid invoices, can be filtered by type and date.

![screenshot admin invoices](doc/screenshot-admin-invoices.png)

#### Node and channel management

An admin interface that shows some node statistics and the current open channels with their balances.

![screenshot admin channels](doc/screenshot-admin-channels.png)


## Advanced Configuration / Customization

We built this application as a template so you can build your own fancy
self-order point of sale screen.
[You can see a demo video of our version here.](https://twitter.com/gugol/status/1042658297927675905)

The following chapters will guide you through the steps that are necessary to
customize the generic `Zeus Server` to your needs.

### Write your own invoice processor

Invoice processors are invoked after a Lightning Network invoice has been
updated. Usually, this means it has been paid/settled. You can write your
own invoice processor by implementing `ApplicationListener<InvoiceEvent>` in 
your service.

There is an example `ch.puzzle.ln.zeus.service.processors.MailSendOrderProcessor`
service that sends out an e-mail whenever an invoice has been paid:

```java
package ch.puzzle.ln.zeus.service.processors;

import ch.puzzle.ln.zeus.service.InvoiceEvent;
import ch.puzzle.ln.zeus.service.MailService;
import ch.puzzle.ln.zeus.service.dto.InvoiceDTO;
import org.springframework.context.ApplicationListener;
import org.springframework.stereotype.Service;

@Service
public class MailSendOrderProcessor implements ApplicationListener<InvoiceEvent> {

    private final MailService mailService;

    public MailSendOrderProcessor(MailService mailService) {
        this.mailService = mailService;
    }

    @Override
    public void onApplicationEvent(InvoiceEvent event) {
        InvoiceDTO invoice = event.getInvoice();
        
        // Make sure we only send an e-mail if the invoice has been settled
        // for the first time.
        if (invoice.isSettled() && event.isFirstSettleEvent()) {
            mailService.sendOrderConfirmation(invoice);
        }
    }
}

```

You can customize this however you want.

### Build your own web GUI

There is a simple generic example self-order store implemented in the web GUI.

To change the products and their price, make sure to edit the following files:

* TODO: config file

To change the way the self-order store looks, edit the following files:

* `src/main/webapp/app/shop/self-service.component.html`
* `src/main/webapp/app/shop/self-service.component.scss`
